Everything Seemed So Bleak

I have had a lot of time to think.
Everything seemed so bleak when I was down.
Lottery looking tempting for an easy escape.
Alcohol giving deadly stares 
through the aisles of corner stores.
Plenty to betray me now.
Shuffling across town gripping markers 
that are never permanent enough.
Glancing at people who consume away their fear 
and uncertainty daily.
I want to scribble onto their hands 
“save yourselves”
So when they go reaching for a vice 
they fold backwards and work on internal light.
They call upon the almighty Amazon gods 
to get the lowest cost,
but I am at a loss.
Everything looks pointless 
from this place my mind hovers.
I see the bug, the bug sees me. 
The infinite in its creation.
Love particles merging together 
and weaving conversations into beautiful tapestries.
I want to twist and turn into a pretzel 
that has eight arms and legs.
Build a sticky nest up in a corner 
and lay a couple eggs.
Slow to heal and need some time. 
When I was down my brain did my body a crime.
Traded in my real life memories 
for a missed opportunity.
Tricked myself into becoming a pest 
and the thing I loved the most 
became burnt toast.
Sleeping awake, 
hiding from high-proof malts.
I can feel it’s breath across town 
ever since we split.
Staring at me through the walls of gas stations, 
my liquid to forget.
Drifting is scary when the lights go out.
When the illumination flickers, 
lanterns low and that numbness flow.
“You need christ the lord in your heart”, 
says the card they tossed into my case.
To not feel empty, 
they say that God takes up space.
God the bum particle 
who crashes on your mind’s couch and eats all your chips.
Possession is hard.
Owning a lot of things, 
but the echo gets louder through all of those hollow bits.
Ride the swing back and forth forever, 
seeking balance.
Mistakes and hardships await the other side of that door.
He calls me and tells me drinks are on him.
Losing all respect for myself 
in under two hours and thirty seconds.
I circle back to the bitter bar having lost my wallet, 
wasted on tequila and sadness.
Only three lucky two-dollar bills left in my pocket.
Find my bike chained to a pole in an alley we visited.
Emotions spill out like the Steel Reserve in my book bag.
Then I find a pile of boxes.
These boxes are full of books 
belonging to the library near here.
I look up and down the street, 
but there is not a soul around this book pile.
They seem lost like my spirit. 
Out of place and unsorted.
I should fix my broken pieces and call it art.
Everything seemed so down when I made myself the monster.
I am a pile of broken pieces, 
a box of unread books.
I am creation and potential. 
Scared and soft, needing a bath.
I hope I get well soon.
I wish I knew the words to help us all 
be less afraid of our monsters who feed on fear. 
To get well soon is a risk I’m willing to take.