American Shadow

Assesses the progress 
and still wonders how the evil doings 
are dreamed up behind closed doors.
Distracts the masses and empowers the few.
Collects money from lost lives,
and says that our military aid was well-justified.
Our shadow attempts to overthrow 
a foreign leader in a land far away,
displacing revolutionaries like us 
from equality and a better way of life.
What happened in 1958, 1965, or at 
the Fulbright Committee hearings
when the truth rang like a bell 
and white knuckles clutched 
onto statements hiding Indonesian coups.
Subversion, infiltration, 
and the dark progress of supply and demand.
Supplying arms, 
opening the way for influence.
Flying missiles for allies, 
supplying war goods for enemy officers.
All for the sake of control and wanting 
to keep the door open at the expense of human lives.
Stating that the policy is neutrality,
in press conferences where speeches are made 
on the proper angle to take.
Detachment is appreciated by big brother 
ordering us not to take sides 
where it’s none of our business.
They say in retrospect it was well-justified 
for our convenience,
for our happiness, 
and in a service to the peace.
This was not the first time or the last, 
not even horrifically close.
1973 Chile our installed format of a dictator 
seized power by killing his own people.
A very long list goes on down spiraling stairs 
to reveal thrown open doors
in lobbies for Western corporations 
reaping vast profits from slave labor 
in far away lands.
Commi-chasing union-busting show of force, 
and its millions of victims 
who still stand on islands filled 
with precious resources and low wages.
From the installation of the Shah of Iran
to the massacre of thousands in 
Salvador, Guatemala, and Afghanistan,
imperialist foreign policy tendencies
and a Darth in-Vader approach.
Kissinger kissed blood-stained lips also drip 
with lies that night before the crucifixion.
Calling out and shouting from very high places 
about foreign threats to democracy.
How do we stop the articulation of 
bloody-handed policies and
the prostitution of society 
through the backing of corporate families
and greed?
Reject all you know about imperialist wars,
the endless waves that pulse 
from the Cuban Revolution
and sparks from revolts led by oppressed workers 
that still march in Hong Kong.
The installing and protecting of leaders 
who kill, torture, and mass detain.
Protecting copper colored interests shockingly 
considered business as usual
in the home of the brave and in our restless states.
These laissez-faire opportunists
who write-off genocide for a dollar, 
and dare to offer us a penny for our thoughts
never were prosecuted, and never will be.
While bodies pile up in the Congo 
breaking the backs of funeral diggers,
the modern world thrives on with its need 
for electronic metallic phallics
and the retention of global power.
Idiosyncrasies drive a man insane while pulling hair 
doing taxes and bitching about his government.